This is the servlet as we left it last time where we had our doGet
method that was expecting to receive a name.
If the name didn't turn out,
it was outputting a message saying please enter a name.
We got to change this so that we'd throw an
exception if there's no name available,
and then show how we do error handling within the application.
Now obviously this is not something you probably do in a real life application.
If you don't get the name, it's an input error rather an exception,
but this is just as a demonstration.
So we change the code so that it throws an exception.
Let me put a message into here saying a name should be entered.
If we deploy the application now and go to the browser,
and refresh the page, then we'll see that we get a 500 status.
We're not handling the exception within the application at all.
So we go back to the application.
What we should do is in the web.xml file is add an exception section to
tell the application how to handle these exceptions.
In fact, the exception section here will tell it how to handle any exception.
So here we can add an error-page section.
On the error-page we specify the fully qualified name of a JSP page that
will be displayed when these exceptions are thrown.
And so we'll create a new page called errorpage.jsp.
We'll create our page.
So within the project we'll do New, JSP and call this thing errorpage.
In here we'll just display a message saying this is the error page.
So currently this page just has a title of Error Page,
it includes some CSS files, and has an h2 field,
which just says Error Page.
So again, if I deploy the application and go to the browser,
if I refresh the page, then we'll see it says Error Page.
We can actually do slightly better than that.
So within the page itself, I can add a page directive.
So I can say less than percent at page isErrorPage = true.
If I do that in a JSP page, that gives me access to an object named exception,
and this is an intrinsic error object.
It contains information about the error that's just been thrown.
We can use details from that object within the page.
To use the object in the page, we have to use a script tag.
So in this case just using a script tag will explain
how these things work in a moment.
We can say less than percent = exception., for example,
getMessage,
and this will display the message we passed to the exception onto the page.
So again, if I deploy the application and go to the browser,
and refresh, then we now get the error information as well within the page.
So the exception object gives us access to other information as well.
So again if I say less than percent equals here,
and say exception., we can see this is a standard Java exception object.
So we can get information about stack trace,
we can get the message, we can get the cause of the exception,
and we could dispose information to the user if we really wanted to,
although we probably shouldn't do that,
or we could just use the information to decide what to do with the exception and what information to display back to the user.